# 3D-Printing-Research-Poster

Presented at 8th European Congress on 3D Printing & Additive Manufacturing on October 2-3, 2023, at Amsterdam, Netherlands.

Abstract titled 
“3D Printing as an Educational and Capacity-Building Medical Resource for Resource-Limited Settings”
Sthefon Tran, Dharshan Chandramohan, Stuart Ferrel, Andreana Chen, Shubhika Sahai, Sean Jackson, Madhu Varma

ABSTRACT 
Background: 3D printing has become widely available and cheap, and medical equipment can be printed for medical education in resource-limited settings where they would normally be scarce. Kenya, a low healthcare resource country, is embracing 3D printing, and localization of 3DP allows for the production of what is needed when it is needed. Academic studies on the use of 3DP in developing countries are few. Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of 3D-printed video laryngoscopes as a training tool compared to commercial video laryngoscopes. Methods: Students receive instruction from a standardized video and instruction from either a student researcher or faculty member. The students are asked to intubate using a commercial video laryngoscope in 10 minutes as many times as possible. The students then performed another trial of 10 minutes using a 3DP video laryngoscope as many times as possible. A survey was collected on the user experience and other factors. Data was collected via video on intubation attempts. Results: In total, there were 192 intubation attempts in the commercial laryngoscope control group with a mean of 36.01 attempts, and 164 intubation attempts in the 3DP experimental group with a mean of 41.39 attempts. The mean intubation time for the commercial laryngoscope control group was 36 seconds, while the mean intubation time for the experimental 3D printed group was 41 seconds. Conclusion: The difference between the intubation times in our preliminary findings was statistically significant. However, it is important to note that this difference does not exclude failed intubation attempts, nor does it control for any confounding factors such as teeth break, or attempts restarted. Additional analysis is required to further determine when considering other factors that affected this result. Despite the preliminary analysis, the 3DP video laryngoscope is still a potential training tool for medical education in resource-limited areas.
